.Dd April 16, 2022
.Dt S6-CLOCK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-clock
.Nd get or set the system clock
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar label
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When called without an argument,
.Nm
writes the current system time, as a TAI64N[1] timestamp, to stdout.
.Pp
When given an argument
.Ar label ,
which must be a TAI64N[1] timestamp,
.Nm
sets the system time to this value.
.Pp
.Nm
only prints or accepts TAI time, no matter what the system clock is
set to (TAI-10 or UTC); it will automatically make the right
conversions for your system clock.
Make sure your skalibs[2] has been built with the right settings.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/skalibs/libstddjb/tai.html#timestamp
.Pp
[2]
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/skalibs/
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-clock.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
