.Dd April 16, 2022
.Dt S6-GREP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-grep
.Nd match input against a pattern
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl E | Fl F
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl v
.Ar pattern
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
compiles
.Ar pattern
as a Basic Regular Expression[1].
It reads stdin and matches every line against this regexp.
If the line matches, it prints it to stdout.
.Pp
It exits on EOF with code 0 if one or more lines matched and 1
otherwise.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl F
.Ar pattern
is not compiled as a BRE, but is interpreted as a literal string.
.It Fl E
.Ar pattern
is not compiled as a BRE, but as an Extended Regular Expression[2].
.It Fl i
Ignore case during the match.
.It Fl c
Do not write normal output; only write the number of lines that have
matched
.Ar pattern
after EOF is received.
.It Fl n
Precede every output line by its number and a colon.
The first input line has number 1.
.It Fl q
Do not write anything to stdout.
.It Fl v
Invert the pattern matching
.Po
select lines that do not match
.Ar pattern
.Pc .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap09.html#tag_09_03
.Pp
[2]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/basedefs/V1_chap09.html#tag_09_04
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-grep.html
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
.Em is not
suitable as a
.Pa grep Ns
[1] program conforming to
.St -susv4 /
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
