.Dd April 18, 2022
.Dt S6-HEAD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-head
.Nd print the first lines of input files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl S
.Op Fl 1..9 | Fl n Ar lines | Fl c Ar chars
.Ar file...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
acts as the generic
.Pa head Ns
[1] utility.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Standard options
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl n Ar number
Print the first
.Ar number
lines from
.Ar file
to stdout.
.El
.Ss Non-standard options
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl S
Safe mode.
.Nm
stops reading its input files
.Em right after
getting all the lines it needs.
The rest of the stream can then be handled by other utilities without
any data loss.
.It Fl 1..9
Equivalent to
.Ql -n 1
\&..\&
.Ql -n 9 .
.It Fl c Ar chars
Cuts after
.Ar chars
characters instead of
.Ar lines
lines.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/head.html
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-head.html
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
.Em is
suitable as a
.Pa head Ns
[1] program conforming to
.St -susv4 /
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
