.Dd April 18, 2022
.Dt S6-HIERCOPY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-hiercopy
.Nd copy a directory structure recursively
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar source
.Ar destination
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
recursively copies
.Ar source
to
.Ar destination ,
which is created if it doesn't exist.
The permissions are preserved.
The owner and group are preserved if the user is the superuser.
.Pp
It exits 0 on success and 111 on temporary failure.
.Pp
Copying files and browsing through directories is one of Unix's
weakest points, and
.Nm
is not meant to work around the problem; it's only a quick hack that I
needed to boot my embedded platform.
I originally planned to write the ultimate
.Ql cp
utility, portable and reliable and featureful and everything - while
needing approximately a hundred times less resources than GNU
.Ql cp
does, of course.
But I eventually dropped the idea: it's impossible to design, much
less write, such a utility.
Notably, you cannot make it reliable because Unix's set of filesystem
management primitives is just too weak.
It lacks a lot of atomic operations, and filesystem transactions.
As a result,
.Nm s6-hiercopy
is a walking race condition and should
.Sy absolutely not
be considered instant when used in a multitasking environment.
But then,
.Ql cp
shouldn't either.
.Pp
There is no standard way of creating device nodes on a filesystem, so
any
.Ql cp Ns
-like utility is inherently non-portable.
Fortunately, most systems still agree on the non-portable usages of
the mknod specification[1], so things should work in practice.
Consequently, the
.Nm
utility has been moved from
s6-linux-utils[2] to s6-portable-utils.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/functions/mknod.html
.Pp
[2]
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-linux-utils/
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-hiercopy.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
