.Dd April 17, 2022
.Dt S6-LN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-ln
.Nd create a link to a file
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl s
.Op Fl f
.Op Fl L
.Op Fl P
.Ar source
.Ar target
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
acts as the generic
.Pa ln Ns
[1] utility.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl s
Create a symbolic link instead of a hard link.
.It Fl f
Force replacement of an existing
.Ar target .
.It Fl L
Link targets of symlinks in
.Ar source... .
.It Fl P
Link symlinks in
.Ar source...
themselves.
.It Fl n
If
.Ar target
is a symlink to a directory, replace it instead of adding a link in
the directory.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/ln.html
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-ln.html
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
.Em would be
suitable as a
.Pa ln Ns
[1] program conforming to
.St -susv4 /
.St -p1003.1-2008 ,
except that POSIX mandates that a preexisting
.Ar target
must first be
.Xr unlink 2 Ns
ed and then
.Xr link 2 Ns
ed /
.Xr symlink 2 Ns
ed, which prevents atomic replacements.
.Pp
.Nm
aims to be reliable and allow for atomic replacements, so it deviates
from POSIX on that point: when
.Ar target
exists and needs to be replaced,
.Nm
first creates a (sym)link to a unique temporary name, then
.Xr rename 2 Ns
s the temporary name to
.Ar target .
This behaviour makes sure that
.Ar target
is atomically replaced - there's no point in time where it does not
exist.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
