.Dd April 17, 2022
.Dt S6-MAXIMUMTIME 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-maximumtime
.Nd execute a program with a time limit
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl 0 | Fl a | Fl b | Fl i | Fl k | Fl q | Fl t | Fl x | Fl 1 | Fl 2
.Ar milli
.Ar prog...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
forks and
.Xr exec 3 Ns
s
.Ar prog...
as a child.
.Pp
If
.Ar milli
milliseconds elapse before
.Ar prog
exits,
.Nm
sends it a signal and exits 99 with a message.
.Pp
Else
.Nm
exits with the same exit code as
.Ar prog .
.Pp
If
.Ar milli
is 0, then it's interpreted as infinite: no time limit will be
enforced.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl 0
On timeout, do not send any signal, just exit.
.It Fl a
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGALRM .
.It Fl b
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGABRT .
.It Fl i
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGINT .
.It Fl k
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGKILL .
.It Fl q
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGQUIT .
.It Fl t
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGTERM -
this is the default.
.It Fl x
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGXCPU .
.It Fl 1
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGUSR1 .
.It Fl 2
On timeout, send a
.Dv SIGUSR2 .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 99
Timeout.
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-maximumtime.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
