.Dd April 17, 2022
.Dt S6-PAUSE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-pause
.Nd block until killed
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl b
.Op Fl i
.Op Fl p Ar signals
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is one of the smallest possible long-lived programs.
It uses as few resources as the kernel will allow.
.Pp
The options can be used to wait for a specific signal without being
killed by others.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl t
Ignore
.Dv SIGTERM .
.It Fl h
Ignore
.Dv SIGHUP .
.It Fl a
Ignore
.Dv SIGALRM .
.It Fl q
Ignore
.Dv SIGQUIT .
.It Fl b
Ignore
.Dv SIGABRT .
.It Fl i
Ignore
.Dv SIGINT .
.It Fl p Ar signals
Ignore the signals listed in
.Ar signals ,
which must be a comma-separated list of signal numbers.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-pause.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
