.Dd April 17, 2022
.Dt S6-QUOTE-FILTER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-quote-filter
.Nd act as a filter, quoting lines read on stdin and writing the quoted lines to stdout
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl u
.Op Fl d Ar delim
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads lines on stdin; it quotes every line, putting it inside double
quotes and escaping all dubious characters.
.Pp
It writes the quoted strings to stdout.
.Pp
It exits 0 on EOF.
.Pp
Quoted strings are guaranteed to be pure printable ASCII, without
control characters.
.Pp
Quoted strings can be unquoted via the
.Xr s6-unquote 1
or
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1
programs.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl u
Do not put read lines inside double quotes, only escape characters if
needed.
.It Fl d Ar delim
Use the first character of
.Ar delim
as a quote character, instead of double quotes.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-quote-filter.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
