.Dd June 15, 2022
.Dt S6-TEST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-test
.Nd evaluate an expression and indicate the result via exit status
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar expression...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
acts as the generic
.Pa test\&
utility[1], but it diverges from the specification on one point: if an
argument starts with a backslash, this backslash is ignored (and the
argument cannot be an operation).
This is a simple disambiguation technique that has unfortunately not
been chosen by the standard.
.Pp
.Nm
accepts an arbitrary number of arguments.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Ss Standard options
None.
The standard states that
.Dq [n]o options shall be supported .
.Ss Non-standard options
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl v Ar VAR
Tests whether the
.Ar VAR
variable is defined in the current environment.
.It Ar string No =~ Ar pattern
Tries to match
.Ar string
against extended regular expression
.Ar pattern .
True if any part of
.Ar string
matches
.Ar pattern ;
in order to match whole strings, you must anchor
.Ar pattern
with
.Ql ^
and
.Ql $
markers.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 0
The test is true.
.It 1
The test is false.
.It 100
Wrong usage.
.It 101
Internal error (should never happen, warrants a bug-report).
.It 111
System call failure.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://pubs.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/9699919799/utilities/test.html
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-test.html
.Sh STANDARDS
.Nm
.Em is not
suitable as a
.Pa test Ns
[1] program conforming to
.St -susv4 /
.St -p1003.1-2008 ;
however, if your arguments never start with a backslash, it exhibits
the exact same behaviour.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
