.Dd April 18, 2022
.Dt S6-TAI64NDIFF 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-tai64ndiff
.Nd show time difference between two TAI64N-timestamped lines
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
acts as a filter, reading from stdin and writing to stdout.
It expects every line of its input to begin with a TAI64N[1]
timestamp.
It replaces this timestamp with a prefix showing the time difference
between this line and the previous line.
.Pp
.Nm
exits 0 when it sees the end of stdin.
If there's an unfinished line,
.Nm
processes it and writes it before exiting.
.Pp
The prefix it prints is of the form
.sp
.D1 [ \& Va seconds . Ns Va microseconds \& ]
.sp
in decimal.
It can be interpreted as a fixed-point decimal number of seconds that
elapsed between the timestamp on the previous line and the timestamp
on the current line.
.Pp
If the difference isn't defined,
.Va seconds
and
.Va microseconds
are just whitespace.
The difference is not defined on the first line of stdin or on
non-timestamped lines.
Following non-timestamped lines, the difference may not be accurate.
.Pp
The typical use case of
.Nm
is to read files that have been filtered through
.Xr s6-tai64n 1 ,
or log files that have been produced by
.Xr s6-log 1
with the
.Ql t
directive.
.Pp
The difference is a signed number.
Negative numbers probably indicate a backwards clock jump, which is a
bad thing to have on a system.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
[1]
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/skalibs/libstddjb/tai.html#timestamp
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-tai64ndiff.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
