.Dd April 18, 2022
.Dt S6-UNQUOTE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-unquote
.Nd unquote a quoted string and write it to stdout
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Op Fl d Ar delim
.Ar string
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
unquotes
.Ar string ,
which must follow the syntax of
.Xr s6-quote 1 Ap
s output strings.
.Pp
It prints various warning or error messages to stderr if it cannot unquote
.Ar string
properly.
.Pp
If successful, it prints the result to stdout and exits 0.
.Pp
Quoted strings can be produced via the
.Xr s6-quote 1
or
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1
programs.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl n
Do not print a trailing newline.
.It Fl d Ar delim
A list of characters that will be considered as delimiters
.Po
to start and end the quoted string
.Pc .
By default, only the double quote is such a character.
If
.Ar delim
is the empty string,
.Nm
interprets
.Ar string
as non-delimited, only escaped
.Po
i.e. the result of some
.Ql s6-quote -u
operation
.Pc .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-unquote.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
