.Dd April 18, 2022
.Dt S6-UNQUOTE-FILTER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm s6-unquote-filter
.Nd read quoted strings on stdin, unquote them and write the results to stdout
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl q | Fl Q | Fl v | Fl w
.Op Fl d Ar delim
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads lines on stdin.
It exits 0 on EOF.
.Pp
It expects read lines to follow the syntax of
.Xr s6-quote 1 Ap
s output strings.
.Pp
Depending on the strictness options, it prints various warning or
error messages to stderr if it cannot properly unquote lines.
In the very strict mode, it exits 100 on the first unquoting error.
.Pp
If it is successful at unquoting, it prints the resulting lines to
stdout.
.Pp
Quoted strings can be produced via the
.Xr s6-quote 1
or
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1
programs.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Fl d Ar delim
A list of characters that will be considered as delimiters
.Po
to start and end the quoted string
.Pc .
By default, only the double quote is such a character.
If
.Ar delim
is the empty string,
.Nm
interprets
.Ar string
as non-delimited, only escaped
.Po
i.e. for instance the result of some
.Ql s6-quote-filter -u
operation
.Pc .
.It Fl q
Loose/quiet mode.
.Nm
will silently accommodate errors.
.It Fl Q
Normal mode.
This is the default.
.Nm
will warn on errors.
.It Fl v
Strict/verbose mode.
.Nm
will warn loudly on errors, with many details.
.It Fl w
Very strict mode.
.Nm
will complain and die on the first unquoting error it encounters.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width x
.It 111
Temporary error.
.It 100
Permanent error, such as a misuse.
.It 127
Unable to execute program - not found.
.It 126
Unable to execute program - other reason.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr s6-basename 1 ,
.Xr s6-cat 1 ,
.Xr s6-chmod 1 ,
.Xr s6-chown 1 ,
.Xr s6-clock 1 ,
.Xr s6-cut 1 ,
.Xr s6-dirname 1 ,
.Xr s6-dumpenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-echo 1 ,
.Xr s6-env 1 ,
.Xr s6-expr 1 ,
.Xr s6-false 1 ,
.Xr s6-format-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-grep 1 ,
.Xr s6-head 1 ,
.Xr s6-hiercopy 1 ,
.Xr s6-linkname 1 ,
.Xr s6-ln 1 ,
.Xr s6-ls 1 ,
.Xr s6-maximumtime 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkdir 1 ,
.Xr s6-mkfifo 1 ,
.Xr s6-nice 1 ,
.Xr s6-nuke 1 ,
.Xr s6-pause 1 ,
.Xr s6-printenv 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote 1 ,
.Xr s6-quote-filter 1 ,
.Xr s6-rename 1 ,
.Xr s6-rmrf 1 ,
.Xr s6-seq 1 ,
.Xr s6-sleep 1 ,
.Xr s6-sort 1 ,
.Xr s6-sync 1 ,
.Xr s6-tai64ndiff 1 ,
.Xr s6-tail 1 ,
.Xr s6-test 1 ,
.Xr s6-touch 1 ,
.Xr s6-true 1 ,
.Xr s6-uniquename 1 ,
.Xr s6-unquote 1 ,
.Xr s6-update-symlinks 1 ,
.Xr seekablepipe 1
.Pp
This man page is ported from the authoritative documentation at:
.Lk https://skarnet.org/software/s6-portable-utils/s6-unquote-filter.html
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Laurent Bercot
.An Alexis Ao Mt flexibeast@gmail.com Ac (man page port)
